Class name starts by capital letter by convention.

Class is named group of properties and functions.
It is like a template/blueprint for objects.

Object is an instance of the class.(instance can be referred as physical stuff)

Objects actually occupies space in memory.

All variables inside the object are called instance variables.

A variable pointing to object is called reference variable.
List list = new List();
here list is reference variable.

New keyword is used to create object.It dynamically allocates memory at the runtime for the object.
Object is created in heap memory.

Constructor is a special method/function which is called when object is created.
Constructor doesn't have return type.
Default constructor has no values/arguments.
Constructor is used to initialize instance variables.

This keyword is used to refer current object.It is used to access object inside the class.

We can have multiple constructors with different parameters.
This is called constructor overloading.

We can also call one constructor from another constructor using this keyword.
This is called constructor chaining.
something like this - this (arguments)

Wrapper class is a class which is used to convert primitive data types to objects.
Integer, Double, Character, Boolean are wrapper classes for int, double, char, boolean respectively.
Integer num = new Integer(10);
Integer num = 10; (autoboxing)
we can access various methods of Integer class using num object.
Autoboxing is the process of converting primitive data types to objects.

Final keyword
We can not update the value of final variable,it should always be initialised while declaring.(primitive data types)
Final class can not be inherited.
If a class is declared as final then we all its methods are also final.
Final object can not be reassigned to another object.
Final method can not be overridden.

Garbage Collection happens automatically.
We cannot remove objects manually,but we can specify something to do when objects are being removed using finalise method.

Package is a collection of classes.Basically a folder containing classes.
We can create user defined packages.
We can import classes from other packages using import keyword.
In-built packages:
java.lang:contains all the classes in this package are automatically imported;all the basic stuff that is language specific like primitive data types.
java.util:contains all the utility classes like collections, date and time etc.
java.io:contains all the classes for input and output operations like buffer reader, file reader etc.
java.net:contains all the classes for networking.
java.awt:contains all the classes for GUI (not in use).
java.applet:contains all the classes for applets (not in use).

Static keyword is used to access class members without creating object of the class.
Static variables are shared by all objects of the class.
Static methods can be accessed without creating object of the class.
Accessing static members using class name is a good practice.
Static methods can not access non-static members directly without object.
static methods can be inherited but can not be overridden.Overriding depends on objects but static methods does not depend on objects so they can not be overridden.

public static void main(String args[]) is the entry point of the program.
Main method is static because it can be called without creating object of the class.
Inside static method we can not access instance variables directly.Hence we need to create object of the class to access instance variables.
We can not use this keyword inside static method.

static methods and variables are resolved during compile time.

Object Class
This is the parent class of all classes in java.
